Ragnar Lothbrok, A legendary figure who's story has been told for 1000 years has been surrounded in myth and legend.
In this essay we will Separate Legend from fact.
It starts with Sigurdr hringr, king of the swedes Who had a bunch of Mistresses and A wife, Queen of the Swedes.
She gave birth to prince Ragnar, unfortunately for ragnar his mother died when he was 15, and his father married a woman who was about his age of ragnar.
He wanted to marry the daughter of the king of Vendel, but there family refused.
So the king of sweden went to war the king of Vendel and won, so to protect there daughter the king ordered his sons to poison her.
When the king who by the way is 60 years old, found the body, he was super pissed.  So he burned her body on a boat which is a tradition usually only saved for queens.
But he felt that he lost to much so he got on a ship with the burning girls corpse so he could die with his teenage crush.
Thanks though to ancient runes recently discovered, his last words were to his son, which he pointed too as he was burning on the boat was:
"Follow the path I laid out for you and reach the goal I never could, become the ultimate king son, For it is in your blood."
Now this sets the scene for ragnar, 15 years old and the king of sweden. He led 1 successful raid after another, gaining the trust of his men.
They even believed when he claimed he had odin's blood in him. But sense ragnar has a lot of historic and mythic tales,
according to the historical facts he probably was a Jarl, aka a owner of lands and probably was under King Horik.
But Ragnar otherwise was still a gifted and talented raider, He was a sea king who was a menace to europe and started with raiding Northumbria.
He even killed a king and ransomed the country and told them to pay him tribute to not kill the new king.
Vikings were raiding the south in full force and after king Charlamanges death in 814
the kingdom of frankia was split, and charlamanges son did not wield the same authority.
The empire was filled with infighting and a lack of stability, Everyone laid claim to be king and claimed parts of the empire.
When Ragnar the sea king heard about this, He made west frankia, situated near the water and made it there bullying victim.
For 20 years, As retribution for past attacks by frankia, the vikings attacked with bigger and bigger fleets.
They raided and looted and pushed deeper and deeper inland. The main viking warlord terrorizing them was ragnar.
In these 20 years ragnar was documented by his men, the vikings as more of a legend then a man as there stories are far less down to earth then the franks story.
Now, when ragnar was made the king of sweden, he went to Norway because there king Fro, Killed his uncle so Ragnar saw this as an opportunity to prove himself to his people.
After many battles by ragnar to reach the king of Norway, his men were resting and they were upon a hill. Ragnar looked down to see that the kings army was fighting another force.
When he looked down he saw that the force was mainly woman and that leading them was some sort of warrior goddess.
Ragnar and his men went down to help the woman win the battle, and after so they introduced themselves.
The women name was Largatha and her woman were prostitutes who after the chaos of Ragnar's attack, Freed themselves and started to fight Fro's men.
In fact, before Fro Stole these lands Largatha was the ruler of these lands and she just so happened to take ragnar's heart.
After there combined forces dispatched Fro, Ragnar proposed to Largatha and she accepted. Under the conditions they rule under her land and they were equals.


